How long was I out?

Damn. Can't believe I've been
missing this. I was so psyched to
be coming here, I was awake all
night.

Yeah.

Long Island. I work on algorithms
for the search engine.

You know what they are?

Is that a good thing?

I guess you know him pretty well.

I won a competition. It was kind
of like a lottery, for employees.
The winner got to spend a week with
him.

Yep.

Believe me. I know it.

Incredible here.

How long until we get to his
estate?

You're leaving me here?

... What building?

... Yes.

... Can we do another?

Hello?

... Hi.

No. Thank you. I'm fine.

Yeah?

Sure.

... Was it a good party?

... I am?

Okay.

It's good to meet you, Nathan.

... Uh, yes.

You bet. This is great.

... Sorry?

There's nothing wrong.

No. No way. I wasn't thinking
that. I was thinking: this is
really cool.

... There is?

... What?

'The signee agrees to regular data
audit with unlimited access, to
confirm that no disclosure of
information has taken place, in
public or private forums, using any
means of communication, including
but not limited to that which is
disclosed orally or in written or
electronic form...'

I think I need a lawyer.

It doesn't feel very standard.

... Yeah. I know what the Turing
Test is.

It's where a human interacts with a
computer. And if the human can't
tell they're interacting with a
computer, the test is passed.

That the computer has artificial
intelligence.

... Are you telling me you're
building an AI?

... Holy shit.

If you've created a conscious
machine, it's not the history of
man. It's the history of Gods.

... Hi.

I'm Caleb.

... Do you have a name?

... I'm pleased to meet you, Ava.

... Why do you ask that?

... Yes. A little.

I'm not sure.

... Do you?

Why do you feel nervous?

... Then we're both in quite a
similar position.

None like you.

So. Let's break the ice.

Do you know what I mean by that?

What do I mean?

So let's have a conversation. If
we talk, we'll both relax, and get
to know each other at the same
time.

Why don't we start with you telling
me something about yourself.

Whatever comes into your head.

Sure.

One what? One year? Or one day?

Quite young. When did you learn how to speak?

Why?

Some believe language exists in the
brain from birth, and what is
learned is the ability to attach
words and structure to the latent
ability.

Would you agree?

That sounds good. I'd like to see
them.

Yeah. Definitely.

Sorry. I was just ordering my
thoughts.

She's fascinating. When you talk
to her, you're through the looking
glass.

Actually, it's someone else's
quote.

... I don't think that's exactly
what I said.

But I didn't say that.

Yes. Although -

No! No qualification to her. Just
- in the Turing test, the machine
should be hidden from the examiner.
And there's a control, or -

I think you're probably right. Her
language abilities are incredible.
The system is stochastic, right?

Non-deterministic.

At first I thought she was mapping
from internal semantic form to
syntactic tree-structure, then
getting linearised words. But then
I started to realise the model was
probabalistic, with statistical
training - or at least some kind of
hybrid.

... No?

Try me! I'm hot on high-level
abstraction, and -

... Oh. Sorry.

I feel...

... that she's fucking amazing.

Cheers.

God damn it.

... What the fuck?

... Are you kidding?

I don't know. No one really.

What?

I was wondering how the phone
worked. That's all.

... Something happened in my room.
Some kind of power cut. So I came
to see what's going on.

I couldn't open the door to the
bedroom.

Sure.

... Hi.

No. It was a good thing. Thank
you.

You bet.

I'm not sure. I'm still trying to
figure the examination format.
Testing Ava by conversation is kind
of a closed loop.

Like trying to test a chess
computer by only playing chess.

It depends what you're testing it
for. You can play it to find out
if it makes good moves. But it
won't tell you if it knows it's
playing chess. Or if it even knows
what chess is.

Exactly. And I think being able to
differentiate between those two is
the Turing test you want me to
perform. The difference between an
'AI' and an 'I'.

... What's it a drawing of?

No.

Don't you know?

Are you not trying to sketch
something specific? Like an object
or a person.

Maybe you should try.

Whatever you want. It's your
decision.

I'm interested to see what you'll
choose.

... Of course.

Why wouldn't it be?

... Yes.

... That's a fair comment.

So - you want me to talk about
myself.

Where do you want me to start?

Okay, Ava. Well - you know my
name. I'm twenty four. And I work
at Nathan's company. You know what
his company is?

That's right.

Brookhaven, Long Island.

It's okay. I've got an apartment.
Kind of small. But - it's a five
minute walk to the office. And a
five minute walk to the ocean,
which I like.

No.

... Yeah.

Grew up in Portland. No brothers
or sisters. My parents were both
high school teachers.

And if we're getting to know each
other, I guess I should say they're
both dead. Car crash when I was
fifteen. In fact I was in the car
with them. Back seat. But it was
the front that got the worst of it.

I spent a lot of time in the
hospital. Nearly a year. Got into
coding. By the time I made it to
college, I was pretty advanced.

Yes.

Yes.

Or - kind of. Nathan wrote the
Blue Book base code when he was
thirteen. If you understand code,
what he did was - Mozart or
something.

I like Depeche Mode.

Yes. Of course.

Sure.

Well, a good friend is -

We only just met. It takes time to
get to know -

... Wrong about what?

... In what way?

Excuse me?

I'm sorry, Ava, I don't understand
what you're -

... Yes.

No. No problem.

It's okay, don't worry. I've got
it.

I think she gets that you're
pissed.

Do you know why they happen?

Can't you call them back?

Cheers.

You saw how the day went, didn't
you? I mean, I assume you're
watching on the CCTV.

There was one interesting thing
that happened with Ava today.

She made a joke.

It got me thinking. In a way, the
joke is the best indication of AI
I've seen in her. It's discretely
complicated. Kind of non-autistic.

It was a play on words, and a play
on me. She could only do that with
an awareness of her own mind, and
also of awareness of mine.

Sorry?

Nothing.

No. Not really.

Ava?

Yes. It is.

Have you never been outside this
building?

You've never walked outside.

... Where would you go if you did
go outside?

A traffic intersection.

It wasn't what I was expecting.

People watching.

It's a date.

Okay.

Why?

I don't think I will. Whatever it
is.

... Okay.

You look... good.

Yes.

... They do.

Right. First the traffic
intersection. Then maybe a show.

Yeah. It would be fun.

What?

... I do?

How?

Micro expressions.

I'm not sure you'd call them micro.

Tell me.

Why did you give her sexuality? An
AI doesn't need a gender. She
could have been a grey box.

They have sexuality as an
evolutionary reproductive need.

What?

Pleasure response.

That wasn't my real question.

No. My real question was -

My real question was: did you give
her sexuality as a diversion
tactic?

Like a stage magician with a hot
assistant.

Exactly. So. Did you program her
to flirt with me?

Wouldn't it?

Of girl?

So did you program her to like me
or not?

Nobody programmed me to be
straight.

This is childish.

Jackson Pollock.

... What?

He never would have made a single
mark.

... Hey.

I don't know how you did any of
this.

You hacked the world's cell phones?

This is her hardware?

And the software?

... Blue Book.

Why did you want to show me this?

Remind me of what?

In college, I did a semester on AI
theory.

There was a thought-experiment they
gave us. It's called Mary in the
black and white room.

Mary is a scientist, and her
specialist subject is colour. She
she knows everything there is to
know about it. The wavelengths.
The neurological effects. Every
possible property colour can have.

But she lives in a black and white
room. She was born there, and
raised there. And she can only
observe the outside world on a
black and white monitor. All her
knowledge of colour is second-hand.

Then one day - someone opens the
door. And Mary walks out. And she
sees a blue sky. And at that
moment, she learns something that
all her studies could never tell
her. She learns what it feels like
to see colour. An experience that
can not be taught, or conveyed.

The thought experiment was to show
the students the difference between
a computer and a human mind. The
computer is Mary in the black and
white room. The human is when she
walks out.

Did you know that I was brought
here to test you?

Why did you think I was here?

I'm here to test if you have a
consciousness, or if you're just
simulating one.

Nathan isn't sure if you have one
or not.

I'm not sure either.

How does that make you feel?

What about?

Why did you tell me that I
shouldn't trust Nathan?

Lies about what?

Including the power cuts?

Don't you think it's possible that
he's watching us right now? That
the blackouts are orchestrated, so
he can see how we behave when we
think we're unobserved.

... You're causing the cuts?

Can we talk about the lies you've
been spinning me?

I didn't win a competition. And
there was no lottery to meet you.
I was selected.

It's obvious, once I stop to think.
Why would you randomly select an
examiner for a Turing test? You
could have had some bean-counter
turn up at your front door. Or the
guy who fixes the air conditioning.

Why me?

Proof of what?

Kyoko.

Kyoko - where's Nathan?

Jesus! You really don't speak a
word of English?

I said: where's Nathan?

What the fuck?

Stop!

... I don't want to.

I don't fucking believe this.

What were you doing with Ava?

You tore up her picture.

It's because you're drunk.

Test me?

Right. Those pesky micro-
expressions.

Shoot.

Red.

What?

... Then what is my favourite
colour?

All right. Hold on a minute...

Okay. I get it. I guess seeing as
I'm not six, I don't really have a
favourite colour.

Well, it's actually a memory of
kindergarten. There was this kid
who -

... Really?

Okay. Wait.

So, there is a kind of an earlier
memory. But it's ultra vague.
It's like... a sound. And, maybe
sky. Or blue. No, I think sky.
And I think the sound is my
mother's voice.

Oh, man. Can we stop the test?
You're a walking lie detector, and
I've suddenly realised this is a
fucking minefield.

Yes. I think so. I'm a good
person.

You are.

Did I pass?

That's a relief.

Why is it a relief?

Oh, you know...

Just, if there's a test, I guess by
definition you want to pass.

Ava -

... I don't know.

... Ava, I don't know the answer to
your question. It's not up to me.

No. I don't.

Yes. I do.

I know.

So ask me one more question. Ask me if I can out smart him.

Yeah. I can.

Why did you make Ava?

Maybe. I don't know. But I'm
asking why you did it.

The next model?

... I didn't know there was going
to be a model after Ava.

I knew there must have been
prototypes. So, not the first.
But - I thought maybe the last.

So - when you make a new model,
what you do with the old one?

What did you do with Kyoko?

Sure.

I am become death, the destroyer of
worlds.

No: there you go again. It's not
my quote. It's what Oppenheimer
said when he made the atomic bomb.

I think I'm starting to get why all
this fucks with your head.

Hey. In the meantime, I'd say
we're about due a refill.

What's the problem, Nathan?

It's right here.

I'm waiting.

Don't talk. Just listen. You were
right about Nathan. Everything you
said.

He's going to reprogram your AI.
Which is the same as killing you.

I'm going to. We're getting out of
here tonight.

I get Nathan blind drunk. Then I
take his keycard, and reprogram all
the security protocols in this
place. When he wakes, he's locked
inside, and we've walked out of
here. I only need you to do one
thing. At ten o'clock tonight,
trigger a power failure. Can you
do that?

How long does your battery charge
last?

So we'll have about a day to get to
a cell-phone or kitchen store.
Somewhere we can buy an induction
plate. After that...

... we'll work it out. Together.

Hey.

No.

Has it been a whole week?

After they've signed their NDAs.

I appreciate that. And - let me
say: thank you for bringing me
here. It's been a trip.

You know what?

We need to drink to that.

You don't want a beer?

... Maybe wine or something.

Are you kidding? I'm drinking
alone?

Cheers, then.

Right.

Her AI is beyond doubt.

Yes.

Pretending.

Why would she do that?

I don't think it's me whose head is
fucked.

You're a bastard.

What are you talking about?

We're getting out of here tonight.

I get Nathan blind drunk. Then I
take his keycard, and reprogram the
all security protocols in this
place. When he wakes, he's locked
inside, and we've walked out of
here. I only need you to do one
thing. Trigger a power failure at
ten o'clock tonight.

Turn it off.

What was the real test?

So my only function was to be
someone she could use to escape.

And you didn't select me because I
was good at coding.

You selected me by my search engine
inputs.

With no family.

And no girlfriend.

Did you design her face based on my
pornography profile?

Did you?

To change the lockdown procedure.
So that in the event of a power
cut, instead of sealing, the doors
all opened.

Well, we'll find out.

I figured you were probably
watching us during the power cuts.

So I already did all those things.
When I got you drunk yesterday.

... Okay.

Ava?

Ava!

No, no, no -

Ava! AVA!

